Okay, welcome back.
The fewer, the heartier,
the people without lives or families
to spend Memorial Day weekend with.
This is part two of our
AppleScript Festival.
This is
Building AppleScript Applications.
I'm Chris Espinosa,
the manager of the Components
and Scripting Group,
and we're going to take you through
some of the particular issues in
implementing your Mac OS X applications.
Some on just porting
the application over,
some on taking advantage of new
features and idiosyncrasies of Mac OS X.
It's a real nuts and bolts coding.
I'm going to spend a lot
of time in ProjectBuilder,
going to spend a lot of time in C code.
It will be Cocoa-free.
So, I...
Yeah, that always gets a mixed response.
What you'll learn is how to
port your scriptable apps to 10,
which is basically carbonized.
There's really not a lot more than that.
A couple of special issues.
What to do about the FS spec problem,
which you may not have run into yet,
but as soon as you do, it will be tragic.
How to deal with new
Mac OS X constructs like Sheets.
I thank Mark Aldred for
bringing up both of these to us.
He was the lone voice crying
in the wilderness on the
Mac OS X implementers list.
What about Sheets?
What about FS specs?
And we were so busy porting it to
Mac OS X and getting the product out that
we didn't really get together and say,
you know, he's right.
This is a problem until getting
ready for this presentation.
So we've got some fixes.
And how to debug scriptable
applications and scripts.
One of the greatest losses that people
feel in working on... I want to go
see what they're doing over there.
They're having a hell of a time.
Maybe they're giving away T-shirts.
One of the greatest losses people feel
in moving to Mac OS X as a development
environment is the loss of maxbug and
all of those great decommands that help
you know what's going on in your system.
Well,
we're going to be showing you how to make
up some of that loss in this session.
So let's jump right into it.
You've got source code.
It's in ProjectBuilder.
You want to make it scriptable.
How do you do it?
It's really very simple.
If we could have demo one up.
This is our old friend, SimpleText,
which, as you saw in the last session,
has some scripting capabilities.
It's got Apple event handlers in it,
and it's got an ability
to execute Apple scripts,
but it's not scriptable per se.
Well, we can fix that.
So if I want to take simple
text and make it scriptable,
it's a simple matter of adding a file.
And yes, we do want to copy it in
the new groups folder.
So we add a terminology file,
and the terminology file is our AETE,
as we know it and love it.
In this case, though,
since this application is
a bundled application and
it has different variants,
what I have to do here
is go to the target,
look at the resources,
Notice that terminology.r
doesn't have any variants.
So I need to go back to the files.
Right.
There we go.
And pick localization platforms and
add a localized variant for English.
Okay, so now terminology.r has
an English variant that
looks like everything else.
And then I do a build.
And this is going to do a complete build,
so it'll take a little while.
Really, all you need to do is add
a terminology resource.
And AppleScript will recognize
the application as scriptable
if it has an AET in it.
Cocoa applications have
a special Info.plist flag
called NSAppleScriptEnabled,
which is set to true.
You can go ahead and set
that in your Info.plist,
even if you're not a Cocoa application.
That will speed things up for us.
We'll recognize you as a scriptable
application more readily if that's true.
But really, all you need to do is add
a terminology resource.
So here we go.
We've built.
Now we should have a
simple text executable.
And if we drag and drop
this on script editor.
Script editor.
editor shows us the
simple text dictionary.
[Transcript missing]
There we go.
So, scriptable, simple text.
That's all you needed to do.
Now,
when you have a scriptable application,
you're suddenly faced
with the problem of,
okay, now I want to see what's going on.
And Project Builder has a very
functional debugger where you can look
at variables and where you can step
through applications step by step,
but where if you're used to
looking at it in Project Builder,
in Code Warrior,
where you could format the variables in
different ways as characters or whatever,
or in MaxBug,
where you could look at it in
hex or ASCII as well as decimal,
you'll find that there are some
inherent limitations in Project Builder
and its underlying debug engine,
GDB, that don't have the things you're
familiar with and really rely
on in debugging Apple events,
mainly because Apple events are deep,
complex, variable-length data structures
that involve a lot of things.
That are 32-bit quantities that are
interpreted by us as four characters,
but aren't actually
string or character types.
And so GDB basically says, hey,
this is an unbounded, long,
opaque data type that
has a lot of hex in it,
so I'm going to show you the hex
or maybe the octal if you're lucky.
This is not very helpful for debugging.
You want to look at four-character codes.
You want to find out where your
Apple event handlers are installed.
You want to set breakpoints
in interesting places.
You want to look at
Apple events and AEDesks.
And you want to do these all in your
GDB environment without resorting to
the command line or special tools.
Well, here's some help for you.
First of all,
write these down and memorize them.
They're very, very handy.
If you want to look at an OS type,
all you have to do is cast it.
If you want to print
the value of a variable,
like the descriptor type of an A desk,
if you just print desk.descriptorType,
you'll get it in hexadecimal.
If you want to see what
the four-character code is,
you cast it to a char4,
and that will print it the characters.
If you want to set it,
you can set it in GDB by saying
set desk.descriptorType equals,
but then you have to type
the hex or the decimal.
If you want to set it as four characters,
you just cast it to a star,
long star of a string.
The string will essentially give
you a pointer to a temporary,
and then you cast that to a long star,
and then you assign that,
and then that will do the
assignment as a four-byte quantity.
These are two very helpful things
to setting and getting descriptor
types or OS types in GDB.
Breaking.
If you want to set breakpoint,
you can set breakpoints in the
Apple Event Manager that will
be hit before the Apple event is
dispatched to your application.
This is especially important
with the Carbon event model.
With the Carbon event model,
you don't usually have a place
where you call AEProcessAppleEvent.
Carbon just dispatches directly to you.
If somebody is sending
you an Apple event,
and none of your handlers
are getting fired,
how do you know?
There's no bottleneck in your
code to set a breakpoint on.
Well, you can set a breakpoint
in the Apple Event Manager.
Okay.
Okay, now I'm at AEM Dispatcher.
This is right.
And at AEM Dispatcher,
Register 3 is the pointer
to my Apple event.
And if I look at it,
in hex it's 61657674,
and then a short hex value
which looks like a handle.
So that looks like an AE desk,
and that's great, except it's hex.
So let's use the trick I used before,
which is print casting to char 4.
of a dereference of $R3
and it says it's AEVT.
Yay!
So I know it's an AEVT.
Let's leave this here for a while,
go back to the slides,
because now the problem is, okay,
I want to see what that Apple event is.
And how do I know what
that Apple event is?
Well, I could go in and I could
dereference the handle doubly,
and then examine memory from
there and poke through it,
and I might see the event
class and the event code,
and then the parameters
might be in there,
and if they happen to be in ASCII,
I could probably figure it out.
But that's not very helpful.
Andy Bachorski wrote for us a great
d command in MacsBug called AEVT,
which will dump it all out,
but we don't have that in gdb.
So what we need to do is
write a short gdb script.
And one of the good things about gdb,
and I know MacsBug can do this too,
is that gdb can actually call
library functions from a gdb script.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to call AEPrint,
the AE helpers routine that takes an
Apple event and turns it to ASCII.
And we're going to do some
things like calling malloc
to allocate temporary memory,
which we have to deallocate.
And then we're going to
put this all in a script.
We're going to put it
in our home directory,
and then we're going to invoke
it from the command line.
And this is basically what
our script looks like.
It's got AEPrintDesk to handle,
and then a printf in it,
and then a couple of dispose statements.
[Transcript missing]
Let's take this and put
it in my home directory.
and then in ProjectBuildeR.
Slide down the debugger.
This is what the gdb AE Desk looks like,
just like on the screen.
So let's go back to
where my breakpoint is.
And I'm going to type source
tilde slash gdb aedesk.
And then just to confirm that it loaded,
I'm going to type help user defined.
Okay, and it says list of commands,
AEDesk, and AEGetAppleEventHandler.
Those are two very useful
things that are defined in that.
So now I can type AEDesk $R3.
and it'll chug for a while,
and it tells me that it's an AEVT,
it's an OAPP,
and it's being sent to this PSN,
and there are no parameters.
So I'm using the AE print function in
AE Helpers from a gdb script in order,
in the, at a debugging breakpoint in
the Apple Event Manager to see
what my incoming Apple event is.
This is going to be very,
very helpful for you in debugging
your AppleScript applications.
Similarly, if you want to know where an
event handler is installed,
if you don't know where your code is,
there's some code here.
It calls actually the
actual Apple event routine,
AE get event handler.
You pass it two strings for the
event class and the event code,
and it'll tell you the
address of the handler,
and then you can set
a break point on that,
and then you will get a break
when that handler fires.
This is very handy for figuring out
when a particular handler fires,
especially if the handler
is a wildcard handler.
Okay?
So, with the preliminaries done,
let's talk about the difficult stuff.
Special topics for coding for Mac OS X,
things you may not have anticipated
or known about in making
your application scriptable.
We're going to talk about a minor
housekeeping note is a change in
the Apple event handler prototype,
which is going to involve you
changing some of your code.
We're going to talk about FS specs,
we're going to talk about sheets,
and we're going to talk about
loading scripting additions
into your application.
The Apple event prototype changed.
This is something really unfortunate,
but we felt we had to do it,
and the Mac OS X transition
was a good time.
Historically,
Apple event handlers have had a refcon,
like Windows have refcons
and controls have refcons.
Apple event handlers have had refcons,
and historically that refcon
has been a signed long integer.
We noticed in putting together
the headers for Mac OS X that
all of the other refcons in the
system were unsigned long integers.
We noticed in putting together
the headers for Mac OS X that
all of the other refcons in the
system were unsigned long integers.
all the other Refcons are signed.
Historically, the Apple event handlers
have been unsigned.
We decided to fix this,
and fixing this means that you're
going to have to change the prototypes
on your Apple event handlers
and the headers on the handlers,
but not the installation code.
Otherwise,
you would have to do a lot of casts.
It's not pleasant,
but it's just something you have to do.
It's just some housekeeping,
but I just wanted to let you
know that that's coming up.
More serious is the issue of FS specs.
FS specs have been pretty much the
hard coin of talking to the file system
since people really started using the
new file system calls in Mac OS 8.
FS specs have been fairly useful.
They let you get at things in the file
system without having to deal with paths,
but there are some problems in Mac OS X.
FS specs, first of all, are limited.
Their path name is a char255,
and it's intended to be
in the system encoding.
And that means that an FS spec can't
really refer to a long file name or
refer to a Unicode file name very well.
We're strongly recommending you
work with FS refs that can do this,
but FS specs have a
fundamental limitation.
But there's a problem.
FS refs can't refer
to non-existent files,
and FS specs can,
and the reason why a lot of people
like FS specs is that you can
use them in creating a new file,
and that's important in Apple event,
Apple scripting application,
where a script may want to tell a
application to create a new file.
You want some compact,
useful way of saying
what new file to create,
and an FS spec can't do it because
it can't use long Unicode file names,
and then an FS ref can't do it because
it can't refer to non-existent files.
What complicates this is
that in the Carbon model,
each Carbon application has
its own view of the VCB queue.
That means each Carbon application
has its own list of volumes that
may be in a different order.
So a volume refnum is not
valid across processes.
That means that an FS spec and an FS ref,
which are volume refnums,
are not valid across processes.
So a volume refnum is not
valid across processes.
So you can't really legally send
an FS spec or an FS ref from a
script to an application because
its volume list may be different,
and it may be talking
about a different volume.
We get these bugs every once in a while.
I wrote this script,
and I told this application
to save the file,
but it's saving it on a different disk.
Why is that?
Well,
it's saving it on disk negative two,
and in that application,
disk negative two is a
different disk than in that one.
So it's not valid across processes.
If you're lucky, it works.
If you're not lucky and
you're going deep down,
you probably don't have the same
directory structure on each disk.
The dir IDs are probably not the same,
and it just plain doesn't work.
So we need a solution to this.
If you want to send a save event
to your--if your application
wants to process a save event,
you need a way of getting the file name
that's not FS ref or FS spec based.
Well, the answer is, you know,
whenever you can,
you use type alias for open or
for print events or for anything
else dealing with a file.
Type aliases are valid across processes,
and they can represent
long Unicode file names,
but they too cannot
represent non-existent files.
So for non-existent files,
we are creating a new
type called type file URL.
And the date of a type file URL is the
same format as the FURL drag flavor.
If the finder drags a file to you,
using the drag manager
and drops it on you.
When you get it out,
you probably coerce it to
an FS spec or an FS ref,
and then you get it in your context.
But interprocess,
it's being sent as this FURL data type.
And this FURL data type
is process independent.
It can refer to non-existent files,
and it doesn't rely on volume refnums,
so it's legal to send across processes.
We're going to use the same data format
with the same four-character code
to specify new files in AppleScript.
What's nice about it is that
it is file system independent.
It encodes special characters,
so you can have a file name
with colons or slashes,
and you don't have to parse them out.
It can distinguish between files
on volumes that have the same name,
which is really important,
and it's valid across
processes and boxes.
And since it's valid
across processes and boxes,
it's valid across processes and boxes.
It's a URL.
It's even valid across machines, really.
We're going to provide
you with some sample code.
George Warner and John Montriand
are working on this now.
We're providing a few routines
to basically create and extract
file URL data types from
things that you see every day,
from nav services replies,
from AEDesks to get them
in and out of Apple events,
and also to create a new file
given an FURL in one step,
rather than having to take it apart
and find the file name portion,
the directory name portion,
and call the fs create unicode call.
So we're just packaging this
up as a bunch of sample code.
We're also providing coercions
between this FURL and all
of the interesting types,
all of the interesting character types,
type chart, type style text,
type unicode text,
so that users could see these if they
wanted and they could create them.
And all the type files,
the c file object specifier,
the type fss, and type fs ref aliases,
and the object specifier, of course,
so that people can actually
compile these in Apple script.
So how you use these is
very straightforward.
Say that you are an application
that is factored and you
send yourself a save event.
So after somebody chooses save and
they fill out the nav reply record,
you want to generate a save event with
the file name that's been picked in
the nav reply record and send it to
yourself to actually save the file.
Well, the nav reply record gives
you a directory URL and a
CFString of the Unicode file name.
Those aren't very useful to you when
you want to get them into an AE desk.
So we've created one call that takes
that nav reply and makes it into a CFURL,
the underlying core
foundation URL data type.
And then another call
that puts that CFURL.
Into an Apple event as an F URL parameter
and all you have to provide is the key.
So in basically three lines of code,
you can take your nav services reply and
stuff the fully transportable file name
from that into an outgoing Apple event.
Similarly,
on your save file Apple event handler,
you're going to get an in parameter in.
And it can be anything.
It can be an alias, it can be an FS spec,
it can be an FS ref,
it can be a type file URL.
But you basically want
to know two things.
One, does it already exist?
And if it doesn't already exist,
how can I make a file that
does exist so I can write into
it and get an FS ref from it?
And so basically what you do is
you get the in parameter as you
try getting it as an FS ref.
If that fails, then either there wasn't
something there or there was
something there that couldn't be
resolved to a file that exists.
So you guess, okay,
if my FS ref succeeded,
I'm writing to an existing file.
If it failed,
I probably want to create a new file.
So then you try to get the
in parameter as an URL.
And if that succeeds, then you know, hey,
I'm going to get an in parameter.
And if that fails, then you know, hey,
So now I'll show you
how that actually works,
once again in simple text.
[Transcript missing]
for my .h file, and add that .h file.
And that's going to be this.
Here's my file, Earldesk.h.
[Transcript missing]
And basically it defines
a create from nav reply,
create desk from CFURL,
put param and put key CFURL.
Create one from a desk,
create it from an Apple event parameter,
create it from a record key.
Create it from an FS spec.
Create a new file with a neural.
and then a couple of coercion handlers.
And one of the things we want to do is we
want to install those coercion handlers.
So let's get the source.
Okay.
Now, I want to add a save event handler,
and we're going to call a save event
handler and see how this does it.
So I'll go open up my add-ins.
And I've got a Save Apple Event Handler
Julia Child format.
I'm already canned, and I'll go to where
I should add my save event.
and pasted in and i'll go back and
Install my save event handler.
This is the code to do that.
And then install a couple of
coercion handlers so that I can
process FURL types coming in.
I'll copy those.
And I will add them right in here.
Okay.
And then I will build.
While that's building, what I'll do is--
Go to my home library
scripting editions folder,
and I'm going to copy in
A special version of standard editions
which has a version of choose file name,
which has been updated to return FURL,
and we'll see this in the event log.
And we'll quit the script
editor just for fun,
and we'll quit simple
text just to make sure.
And our build has succeeded.
So now we'll run.
And we'll open up this Save As example.
And so this is fairly simple.
This is what you might see in any script,
set F to choose file name,
save document one in F.
But normally,
choose file name would return
you a file specification,
and you'd send it to save.
But now we're sending it a FURL,
and the FURL will result in a new file.
So we'll turn on the event logs so
we can see exactly what's happening.
Run it.
Choose file name.
Okay.
So notice that it said save
document one in file URL,
file colon slash slash local
host slash users slash sbch
slash document slash baz.txt.
Okay.
So instead of an FS spec,
it came across as a URL.
Notice that simple text
saved it as baz.txt.
And when we go back to the
finder and go look in my home
directory in my documents folder,
There it is.
So this is an example of
how you can very simply,
without really changing your
application architecture,
just use a different data type,
in this case the FURL data type, to
get around the problem that fs refs
and fs specs can't be sent in apple
events as i said we're working on the
sample code for this it's going to be
released as a tech note and you'll have
access to this to incorporate into your
applications the coercion handlers that
i talked about we will incorporate into
a future version uh if you want to ship
something now for Mac OS 10.0.3 you can
install the coercion handlers yourself
in the later version of the operating
system when they're already installed
you can either continue to install
them or just stop installing them and
you'll inherit the ones from the system
So what this means to you is
that with this sample code,
it's safe and probably important
to remove all type FS specs
from your scripting interface.
If you're doing OSACs,
OSACs and if you're doing
factored applications,
if you're doing send
to self applications,
you should probably not
send yourself FS specs.
You should probably not expect
to get FS specs or FS refs
from other applications.
You should really migrate
to this new data type.
It's the same one that we
use in the drag manager.
It's URL based.
There's support for
it in core foundation.
We're providing sample
code for you to do it.
It's something you should
really look at migrating to.
The second issue in
Mac OS X is handling sheets.
Sheets are window modal dialog boxes.
And as window modal dialog boxes,
they behave differently then
dialog boxes do on Mac OS 9.
Mac OS 9 dialog boxes
are application modal.
They block the whole application.
So that when a script tells you to do
something and you put up a dialog box,
that script halts.
Because you won't send back
a reply Apple event until
that dialog box is dismissed.
In many cases,
this is what users-- what scripters want,
because it mimics the user experience.
The problem is with
window modal dialog box,
your application doesn't halt.
What happens is that you
get a Carbon event in,
and you show the sheet,
and then your Carbon event handler exits,
and then your application
is just running,
and the sheet is going to
be called by a callback,
a sheet event handler.
And then you install a procedure
on that to actually do what the
sheet does whenever it's dismissed.
So you basically have these
two threads of execution.
One is the main event handler,
and one is whatever happens when
your sheet event handler gets called.
Well, if you mimic that with
an Apple event handler,
what's going to happen is that
the Apple event will come in,
it will pull down the sheet,
and it will return without an
answer because the user hasn't
filled out and okayed the sheet yet.
If this is like a save dialog box,
then you won't know whether
it actually got saved.
If it's a sheet that says,
this document has not been saved,
are you sure you want to?
When the user presses cancel,
maybe you want to return a user canceled
error from that rather than just say,
oh, it's okay.
Because basically your script
will continue executing,
and it will continue executing
on the assumption that the
previous event has been fully
handled when in fact it hasn't.
It's still waiting there for user input.
Bad things can happen.
So there are four solutions to this.
The first one is the easiest way,
and it's probably the best way,
is to always provide a way from
your scripting interface to let the
scripter avoid pulling down the sheet.
That's going to be the safest.
If the scripter can provide all
the information that's supposed
to be in the sheet in the event,
and you can avoid pulling down the sheet
altogether and just process the event,
do that.
It's the best, safest way.
But what if there are cases where
you have to pull down the sheet,
or if the scripter actually
wants you to pull down the sheet
and have user intervention,
such as the shut down
the entire system event?
You don't want to prevent the
user from having the opportunity
of saving open documents in that.
Those sheets really have to execute,
and you don't want the shut
down the system event to say,
okay, I'm done, and shut down the system,
while all these sheets are
pulled down waiting for the
scripter to pull down the sheet.
It's not the right thing to do.
So the wrong way is to just return
even with the sheets are still down.
Your script and your application
will get out of sync,
your script will continue executing,
it'll keep firing events
with the assumption that,
say,
that window has already been closed or
that document has already been saved.
Or it may go look for that
document in the file system now,
even though it hasn't been saved yet,
and it won't find it,
and it'll be an error.
You don't want to do that.
The cheap way is to see if you're
pulling down the sheet based on a
user action or from an Apple event.
And if it's being pulled
down from a user action,
make it a sheet.
And if it's not,
make it application modal.
And if you make it application modal,
it will behave like Mac OS 9.
It will block the application.
That's a cheap way to do it.
It's effective.
It's really easy to do with sheets.
It's fairly easy to do with nav dialogs.
There's just actually one bit you set
in nav dialog to say make this app modal
rather than making it window modal.
And it does the rest for you.
It'll work.
It doesn't provide the
best user experience.
The nice way and the way that works if
you really want your scripts to be able
to pull down sheets and wait for user
input before resuming is you have to
suspend the incoming Apple event and then
resume it when the sheet is dismissed.
And let me show you how that works.
*Growl*
So somebody sends a close
Apple event to your application.
You create the sheet.
You install the sheet event handler.
You show the sheet.
And then you suspend the incoming event.
And when you return from
the Apple event handler,
you don't return all the way.
It doesn't fill out a reply and send
it back to the original application.
It leaves that application hanging fire
until the reply is actually filled in.
This is the behavior you want
because if this is coming
in from an external script,
that external script will just think,
gee, it's taking a long time
to process this event.
And maybe it'll time out.
If it's got a long time out, it'll wait.
The right thing happens.
Then your sheet event handler,
when somebody actually
does click a button,
you hide the sheet,
you dispose the sheet,
you get the information
about what they actually did,
you maybe put that in the reply,
and then you resume the Apple event.
And at that point,
the reply Apple event is
actually delivered to the caller,
and then the script says, oh,
this is what happens,
and then execution proceeds.
And then in your process,
then you can hide the window and dispose
the window and do everything you want.
And your sheet handler proceeds.
Well, you want a special case that,
because you don't want to hang
yourself while waiting for a
sheet application to occur.
So basically,
in your window event handler,
if somebody clicks the
close box or chooses close,
you can create a close
Apple event and send it.
And then your Apple event
handler has to notice,
hey, this is sent to self,
not sent from somebody else.
There's nobody waiting on me.
I'm just going to execute and return.
I'm not going to suspend the event.
And this is the crucial part.
If the event's coming from outside,
you suspend it.
If it's a send to self event, you don't.
And then similarly,
in your sheet event handler,
if there's a suspended event,
you resume it.
And if there's not, you don't.
Makes kind of sense,
because if you try to resume
and there is no suspended event,
well, it doesn't quite work.
So going back to sample code.
I have here,
I took the Sheets sample code
from DTS and hacked it up fairly
majorly to make it scriptable.
Added in a bunch of events.
But you can see that
I've added Apple event handlers
for open and reopen and open doc.
And I've added an Apple event
handler for make a new window.
And this creates a new window.
And then in the
And I've also added an Apple event
handler to close the window.
Okay?
And in the Carbon event
handler... Here is the
Carbon event handler for close...
Basically what I do is I use
the very convenient AE helpers
to build an Apple event,
and I build
An Apple event that
says close saving ask,
and I send it to myself.
And so when I click the close box or
when I choose close from the menu,
I'm going to generate an Apple event,
which is good for recording purposes.
And then I'm going to catch it
in my close Apple event handler.
OK?
Well, let's look at what happens.
I have a switch in here.
And right now,
I'm going to handle it just by returning.
And I believe that this is already built.
So if I run this application,
it comes up and nothing happens.
And let me open--
This little script.
And what this script does
is it makes two windows,
closes one, saving ask,
and then uses a speech generator,
and I hope the sound's working,
to say I'm done with the script.
If sound isn't working,
just watch the stop button.
So I run the script.
I'm done with the script.
Now, it's done with the script,
but the close operation hasn't finished.
And in fact,
the application's still live.
And I could cancel this,
or I could close a different window.
But the script is already proceeded
on the basis of the understanding that
the first window was already closed.
This is not the behavior that we want.
So let's quit that,
and let's go back to our switch
here and say handle by suspending.
Let's put a breakpoint at
suspend the current event,
and a breakpoint... Okay, so...
I only have one scriptable sheet, great,
and it's bouncing and it's running.
So we run.
And we hit our suspend breakpoint, okay?
Now, let's-- and our script
hasn't terminated yet.
So we go back to Scriptable Sheets,
we click OK.
We hit the resume breakpoint.
Continue.
I'm done with the script.
And then we're done with the script.
So this will be releasing
a sample code too.
It's fairly straightforward.
There are a couple of
complications though,
if we could go back to the slide.
The one thing I talked about before is
you don't resume the send to self events.
That, it just doesn't work.
Don't do it.
The second interesting thing is if
you have a coding style where you,
if there's an Apple event error,
you propagate that through
up to upper levels.
It's really interesting,
in your Carbon event handler,
if your Carbon event
handler sends Apple events,
and the Apple events receive errors,
don't propagate those errors back
out of your Carbon event handler,
because what'll happen is that
Carbon will dispatch that back
up the Carbon calling chain.
So, you need to be intelligent about the
relationship between your Apple event
handlers and your Carbon event handlers,
and understand that if an Apple event,
because the,
when you suspend an Apple event,
it actually returns a
timeout error to the caller.
So if you're sending, well,
you need to work out the relationship
between your Carbon event and
your Carbon event handler.
So,
you can't send that back up the chain.
You need to go through all your
events and Apple events and not
send things back up the chain.
Because Carbon will redispatch it,
and then you will get several
invocations of the same event,
which is not what you want.
In this case,
you get two sheets on one window,
which is not good.
If you're an attachable application,
there are a couple of
things to make sure of.
You want attached scripts to
behave like external ones in that
you want the scripts to pause,
but when you're executing the script,
the events are being sent to self.
So your simple case of if
it's coming from outside,
it's a script I suspend.
If it's coming from inside,
it's a factored command I just executed.
That doesn't work.
But you can't suspend it
because it's sent to self.
So what do you do?
Well, in the case of if you're
executing a script that is
sending your self commands,
what you need to do is execute that
script on a thread and have a send
function for that script execution
for that call to OSA execute or
execute event that blocks that
thread until the event returns.
And that's essentially a way to
suspend and resume that event
execution under your control rather
than the Apple event manager control.
And then you unblock the
thread in your sheet handler.
There are not a lot of attachable
applications that are going to be
scripting save or things with sheets.
If you happen to be in that
case and Mark wanted to know
about this because he is,
this is how we think we should do it.
So what this means to you,
if you adopt window modal dialogues,
if you adopt sheets or the
sheet style nav dialogues,
you have to change the way
you deal with event handlers.
You pretty much have to go
to the Carbon event model.
It really helps to go to
the Carbon event model.
And you need to plan the relationship
between your Carbon event handlers
and your Apple event equivalents.
Let me do one quick thing about
scripting additions in Mac OS X from
the programmer's point of view.
I talked about it from the user's
point of view of where you put
them and how you invoke them.
From the programmer's point of view,
you don't get scripting additions in your
application unless you make an OSA call,
in which case you do.
But what if you wanted to
get scripting additions and
execute them in your context,
and you don't want to have to go
through the overhead of starting
up AppleScript in order to do it?
We have some following magic stuff.
Read quickly.
Basically, you grope our library for
a special symbol called
OSA install standard handlers.
If it's there, you call it,
and then you send yourself a
special event called the GDUT event.
This is the event that AppleScript sends
to load scripting additions.
And when you send this to yourself,
then it'll load all the scripting
additions into your partition.
You only need to do this if you
really want scripting additions.
You don't want to have to go
through the overhead of starting
up AppleScript in order to execute
inside your application space,
inside your application process.
And you're not going to execute
an AppleScript yourself.
It's a fairly rare case.
We generally don't recommend groping
our frameworks to find private symbols,
but this is a fairly safe one.
You're only calling it if it's there.
And in the future,
if we do this differently,
we'll remove that symbol,
and then your test will fail.
You won't do anything.
Everything will just work.
In the future, they may be loaded into
every application by default.
We're still looking at that.
There are some security
implications to that.
We definitely don't want people sending,
for example,
terminal or login window events that
get executed by secret scripting
additions that they put in the
network scripting additions folder,
and all of a sudden they
get root privileges and can
write all over your machine.
We need to look at that model
before we execute scripting
additions in every application.
There are alternatives.
And one of the alternatives
is... This is a great third-party
product called Script Debugger,
and Mark Aldrich is going to come
up and show you how you can use
Script Debugger to debug scripts
executing inside your application.
Mark?
So I'll start by showing you a few
features of Script Debugger as just
an AppleScript debugger so you can
see how your script might execute.
What I have here is a little FileMaker
database with a picture and some
text and a script that works with it.
So what this script does is essentially
read some data out of this FileMaker
database and do some stuff with it.
Script Debugger gives you all the
standard debugging things you need,
breakpoints,
[Transcript missing]
Script Debugger shows you the scope
of all of your variables as you go.
Anything that has a white
background is global.
Anything that has a yellow background
is local to this function or
handler in AppleScript terms.
And anything with a blue background
is built into AppleScript itself.
One of the things you can do is
if you don't like the way the
browser operates or you want to
see something in a larger view,
you can open a separate window and
you can view it in a print form as the
source code from AppleScript or in Best.
And one of the cool things about
Best is that it allows you to deal
with things other than textual data.
So for example,
as this script reads pictures and text,
the debugger shows you
the actual live data.
Now if you're trying to debug a script
running within your own application,
Script Debugger gives you the
ability to actually invoke that
debugger from your context,
not just the Script Debugger application.
And the user interface for this
is simply switching OSA languages.
So you switch from AppleScript to
AppleScript Debugger
and save your script.
In this instance, it's an applet.
And then when I drop
a few files on there,
The applet launches as it normally would,
and then ScriptyBugger comes forward
and you can actually see exactly what
your applet received from the finder,
which in this case is a pair of aliases.
And bear with me, it's still beta.
You can step along.
The key element here is that if you
support what's known as the generic
OSA component in your application,
if you have a script menu or
any other setting in which
you would execute a script,
the generic component will automatically
load the appropriate script.
language.
And by doing so,
you let the author of the script--
You let the author of the
script make the choice.
And in this instance,
they've chosen the debugger,
but they might choose the OS--
The Unix shell OSA component that
Chris was demonstrating earlier on.
And so with that simple
switch of a language,
the debugger can be executed
inside your application,
and you can see exactly
what you're doing.
And, uh...
as sort of the final example
of how cool that might be.
So there, you can have the debugging
running inside the show.
Thank you very much.
Great.
Thanks, Mark.
So, Mark's done a lot of work over a
period of years trying to work around,
if we could have the slides back,
the fact that AppleScript doesn't
have any system level debug APIs.
And we're trying to rectify that
and work with him and the developers
of other debugging applications,
if we could have the slides back,
to actually put in some debugging
APIs into AppleScript so that they
could take advantage of them and you
could take advantage of them in your
applications or invoke them from GDB,
for example, to find out what's actually
going on inside your application
when you're executing scripts.
We have a framework for
what the APIs look like.
The basic concept is that
there's a debug session,
which is based on OSA IDs,
and there are stack frames,
and you can walk the stack
chain and look at globals,
locals, and properties of a handler or
a script in the stack frame.
That looks like it'll have a good match
with the user interface of the current
debuggers and also all the things that
you may want to do from inside a script.
Also providing an interface to
break and single step and step into,
step over, continue, all the things you'd
expect from a debugger.
The important thing is that it
needs a remote mode as well,
and that remote mode will, of course,
be via Apple Events,
so that you could send,
from your debugger,
you could send an Apple Event to
any application executing a script
to halt that script application
and then have the entire debugging
transaction over Apple Events.
This would be very exciting when
we've got Apple Events over the
Internet again because you could do that.
You could do remote debugging
over the Internet between
two machines on Apple Script.
We're really looking forward to that
and we're working closely with the
developers of debugging applications.
So to summarize,
everything you need to make a
good scriptable application,
both an application that implements
scriptability and an application
that executes Apple scripts
is in Carbon Framework now.
And there should be nothing
holding you back from developing
great scriptable applications.
If there is, let us know.
It's easy to invoke
scripts from your code.
I mean, simple text does it in the demo.
It's three or four lines of code.
And if you do,
make sure that you're OSA component
agnostic so you can take advantage
of things like the OSA script,
the shell scripting component,
or Mark Aldrich's debugging component,
so that if you execute scripts,
you don't just execute Apple scripts,
but you execute any scripts,
because we'll be widening the
range of scripts in the future.
Make sure you migrate away from FS specs,
because FS specs are not the right way
to send things between applications.
Please adopt the sheet user interface
in Aqua and take the ways we've shown
you to make sheets work in scripts.
And use the development tools.
Project Builder is a very effective
development tool for developing,
testing, debugging,
and deploying your application.
There's only one more thing left to do,
and that's the feedback forum,
which is going to be across the hall,
because we have 16, 15, 14 seconds left.
We're not going to take any Q&A here,
but we'll take any in the feedback forum.
Once again,
Jason is the technology manager.
Contact him.
I'm the engineering manager.
Use the lists.
George Warner is our fine tech support.